LAB 3 

PART A. TRACE ROUTE
Data travels through 2 points, which is from the source to the destination.

DNS = Domain Name System (DNS translates domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources.)
ICMP = Internet control master protocol
Number of Hops = Number of routers the packet needs to travel to reach the destination.
TTL = Time to live (time taken to transfer packet from one router to another/ time between hops)


1. Determining the network connectivity to a destination host
Before tracing the route of the data, we need to identify if the destination host is reachable. We can determine the destination host is reachable by pinging the website.

Eg: ping www.google.com 

2. After we determine the network connectivity of a destination host, we can use the command lines below to trace the path taken by the packets accross the IP network.
-tracert
-traceroute


PART B. PROTOCOLS
Protocols are a set of rules which must be followed by all nodes on the network to transfer information. Without a standardized protocol, we would not be able to transfer information accross the network.

Characteristics which determine successful communication:
-identified sender and receiver
-agreed upon method of communication
-common language and grammar
-speed and timing of delivery
-confirmation or acknowledgment requirements


PART C. DETERMINE THE MAC ADDRESS OF A HOST
MAC ADDRESS = PHYSICAL ADDRESS/HARDWARE ADDRESS/ETHERNET ADDRESS/BURNED-IN ADDRESS (BIA)

Every computer on an Ethernet local network has a Media Access Control (MAC) address that is burned into the Network Interface Card (NIC). Computer MAC addresses are usually displayed as 6 sets of two hexadecimal numbers separated by dashes or colons (example: 15-EF-A3-45-9B-57). First three set is the Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI) which is the manufacturer code while the remaining three set of codes is the device's unique id code.

We can use ipconfig /all command to find the device's MAC address.